If effort is the currency, here is where I'd spend it — in order.

First: the capability layer. The tools, their descriptions, their boundaries, their failure modes. This is the new API design, and it's the highest-leverage code you'll write.

Second: the data loop. Not "data" as a static asset the way the article frames data gravity, but the loop itself: the agent acts, the outcome is captured, and that outcome makes the next action better. An agent with a tight loop on your specific problem beats a bigger model with none. This is a moat you build, not one you buy.

Third: reliability and evals. The unglamorous scaffolding that tells you whether the agent is getting better or quietly regressing. In an agent-shaped product, your test suite is a behavioral one, and building it is most of the job.

Fourth: model-agnosticism. Precisely because the intelligence layer is commoditizing, you should treat the model as a swappable part. The day I ran Gemma on a Mac — again, in the show notes — I wasn't proving a Mac can host a model. I was proving the model is a component I can source three different ways. Build so that swapping it is a config change, not a rewrite, and the commoditization the article mourns becomes leverage you own.

[pause] Notice what's not on that list: owning the silicon, training a frontier model, betting the company on a fab. Those are capital plays, and they belong to people with capital. The engineer's plays are all further up — and they compound with judgment and data, which is the one kind of moat that gets deeper the cheaper the hardware underneath it gets.

<break time="1.0s"/>

[excited] Now, the sharpest way to feel the shift is to look at what you sell. SaaS sells software: a tool your customer's team logs into and operates. Agent SaaS sells work: you take a job the customer's team currently does, you package it whole, and you sell the outcome as a service. The team stops operating a tool and starts handing off a responsibility.

It sounds like a small rewording. It changes everything. The buyer stops evaluating features and seat counts and starts asking a much simpler question — "will this reliably get the job done?" — the same question they'd ask when hiring. And the builder stops shipping capabilities and hoping the customer assembles them into value; you're now on the hook for the value itself. That's a heavier promise, and it's exactly why the margin follows it back up the stack.

This is also why the commoditization the article mourns is a tailwind here, not a threat. When the intelligence underneath is cheap and abundant, the cost of doing the job collapses — and the price you can charge is anchored to the human labor you're replacing, not to your compute bill. The gap between those two numbers is the whole business.
