The article measures where the capital is going and assumes that's where the value will be captured. Those are not the same thing.

[thoughtful] The whole argument rests on a slide from "this layer is expensive and physically constrained" to "this layer captures the value." But capital intensity and value capture are different axes. Railroads were brutally capital-intensive; most of the durable value ended up with the businesses that ran on top of the rails, not the ones that laid them. Being hard to build is not the same as being where the margin lives.

Here's the move the article misses: commoditization at the bottom doesn't destroy value — it relocates it. When a layer gets cheap and abundant, the barrier drops and value floods into whatever sits on top and can now do something new.

<break time="1.0s"/>

I keep bumping into this in practice, not in theory. A few months ago I ran Gemma 4, the thirty-one-billion-parameter model, on a thirty-two-gigabyte Apple Silicon Mac with Ollama — you can find the details in the show notes. No tokens, no API bill, no hyperscaler in the loop. The article would file that under "inference commoditizing, margins compressing." Fine. But look at what commodity inference actually did: it put a capable model on my desk and collapsed the cost of building something on top of it to roughly zero. That is not value destruction. That is the barrier falling — and value doesn't evaporate when a barrier falls, it moves to whoever is standing on the other side of it.

The open-versus-closed gap closing from eight percent to one point seven percent in a year is the same story told as a threat. The article reads it as "models are commoditizing, so the value sinks to whoever owns the compute." I read it as "the intelligence layer just became a utility, so the interesting question is what you build with a utility."

<break time="1.0s"/>

[curious] Now here's the omission that is, for me, the whole disagreement in one gap.

The article has five layers: semiconductors, open models and inference, premium models, data platforms, applications. Notice what's missing. There is no layer for the thing that turns a commodity model into something that does work in the world. No orchestration. No integration. No agent.

Because the honest thing to say about point software is not that it's dying — it's that it's metamorphosing. The app stops being a static interface you operate and becomes an agent that operates on your behalf. Features stop being screens and become capabilities the agent can reach for. The value was never in the form and the database; it was in the judgment about what to do next, and that judgment is exactly what an agent embodies.
