So let me be concrete about what building in an agent-shaped world actually looks like.

The oldest assumption in application software is that a human drives and the software responds. You click, it reacts. Every screen, every form, every menu is scaffolding for a person operating a machine. The agent inverts this: the software drives, and the human sets intent and supervises. That is not a UI refresh — it's a different center of gravity for the whole system. The screen stops being the product. The product is the loop of perceive, decide, act, check — and the screen is just one place a human can peek into it.

Practically, this means the work you used to pour into the front end — the state management, the wizard flows, the careful choreography of what the user can click next — largely evaporates or moves. What replaces it is the design of the agent's capability surface: the set of actions it can take, described well enough that a model can choose between them correctly, with the guardrails that keep a wrong choice from being catastrophic. That is engineering work, and it's harder than the front end it replaces, because your "user" now has no eyes, no common sense, and no hesitation.

<break time="1.0s"/>

In the old model, a feature is something you build and then teach a human to find: a button, a settings page, a documented workflow. In the agent model, a feature is a tool the agent can reach for — and the entire discipline of exposing tools to a model is exactly the terrain I keep writing about. Whether you reach for MCP or a plain skill is not a plumbing decision underneath the value — it is the product surface.

Get the tool descriptions wrong and the smartest model in the world invokes the wrong capability at the wrong time. Get the permission boundaries wrong and you've handed an OAuth token to something with no judgment about when to use it. The links to those posts are in the show notes — this is where most of the real engineering, and most of the real defensibility, now lives.
